Finally, it's time to train our model.
To train our models,
we use the fit method.
The first argument in the fit method
is the data that we're going to use to train our model.
Here, we're using the training batches we created using our pipeline.
The second argument is the number of epochs.
An epoch refers to one pass through the entire data set.
So here, we've chosen to train our model for five epochs.
So we're going to pass through the entire data set five times before we stop training.
The fit method also returns a history object.
This history object contains a record of
training accuracy and loss values at successive epochs,
as well as validation accuracy and loss values when applicable.
We will discuss the history object in a later lesson.
If we run this cell,
we can see the current epoch and the current batch as the model is training.
We can also see how long it takes to go through each epoch as well
as the loss value and the accuracy value at the end of each epoch.
We can see that by the end of training,
the loss value is 0.0456,
and that the accuracy is about 98.7 percent, which is pretty good.
Now that our model is trained,
let's use it to make predictions on a single image just as we've done before.
If we run this cell,
we can see that our model is now brilliant.
It has predicted, with great probability,
that the digit in this image is an eight,
which is absolutely correct.
Now, let's take a quick look at the loss and accuracy values that we
get when we pass a single batch of images to our trained model.
As we can see, we get a loss value of about
0.02 and we get an accuracy of about 98.4 percent.
If we compare these values to the ones we got before when our model was untrained,
we can see that we've made a huge improvement.
Now is your turn to create a model,
train it, and use it to make predictions.
In this exercise, you're going to create a model, in this exercise,
you're going to train your model,
and in this exercise,
you're going to use it to make predictions.
This is a good time to pause the video and try out
these exercises for yourself before I show you my solutions.
Here is my solution to this exercise.
As you can see, I've created a sequential model
and then I've compiled my model to get it ready for training.
Here is my solution to the second exercise.
Here I've set the number of epochs to five
and then I used the fit method to train my model.
Here is my solution to the third exercise.
As always, we begin by taking a single batch of images
and then making predictions with the predict method on that batch of images,
and then we take the first image in the batch,
and then we use mybooklib to plot it alongside the class probability.